SCSD is both a new text file format for storing tabular data and an API for
manipulating the tables inside. The definitive guide for the file format can be
found in `./README.md`. We are building a Common Lisp library called SCSD. Its
code will reside in the current directory, which is its git repository. The
library will provide functions to parse SCSD, serialize (write out) SCSD, and
work with SCSD tables in-memory. Functions for working with tables should
include the basic relational database operators -- natural join, natural
equijoin, cartesian product, row filter, and column filter.

Consult the `./AI.md` file early and often. If there exists no `./AI.md` file,
create one. In it, keep notes for yourself on what you're doing. This is so
that if the AI session is interrupted, you can pick up from where you left off
by reading the file again. Make sure to include notes for yourself not just on
what you were doing, but your understanding of the problem.

Consult the `./TODO.md` file early and often as well. If there exists no
`./TODO.md` file, create one. This file is both to communicate to any future AI
sessions what needs done and what to do next, but also to communicate to me
what tasks you plan on doing next. Think of this as your "sprint board". In it
you will break down the tasks into incremental chunks that you can get done a
little at a time. Incremental development is important, because when the AI
session gets interrupted, you can sometimes forget what you were doing. Going a
little bit at a time also helps me because if I need to help code or take over,
I'm not left with something unmanageable and I can pick up where you left off.
Keep three lists up to date in this file: What you are currently working on
("In Progress"), what you are blocked on or stumped on ("Blocked"), what you
have done ("Done"), what you have not done ("Backlog"), and tasks that need
more refinement ("Triage").

